# Working Hard

The [Auburn Creed](http://www.auburn.edu/main/welcome/creed.php) is woven into
the fabric of Auburn University, and it expresses important ideals and values
that are closely held by the Auburn Family. When it comes to succeeding in
this course, three lines from the Creed are particularly relevant.

## Hard Work

> I believe that this is a practical world and that I can count only on what I
earn. Therefore, I believe in work, hard work. 

Success in this class will require you to work hard. You will need to
discipline yourself to keep up with the lectures, activities, and assignments,
and doing that will require good time management. The first part of this
course will emphasize a systematic, disciplined approach to developing code,
so you will need to take that seriously and apply it to your own work.

And don't forget that learning this material requires practice. You can't just
read it or watch it, you have to do it. There are Hands-On Activities in each
module that encourage you to practice, but take other opportunities to
practice as well. What separates truly great athletes and musicians from
ordinary ones? More than anything else, it's the hard work of practice. It is
exactly the same with software developers. It takes practice to master the
required skills and knowledge and to truly excel.

## Honest Work

> I believe in honesty and truthfulness, without which I cannot win the
respect and confidence of my fellow men. 

Success in this course is much more than earning a good grade. It's about
truly mastering the content. Often we get too focused on grades and make them
our end goal in a course. This is a mistake for several reasons, and one in
particular is that this outlook can tempt us to cut corners and turn in work
that isn't completely our own. Be sure to do your own work. I encourage you to
help each other learn, but there is a line where help crosses over into
academic dishonesty. Never share your code with other people, and never use
code that isn't your own.



# Working Smart

