# All Access Information

> Note: This information is provided by the AU Bookstore, not your course
> instructor. For questions regarding All Access, please contact Russell Weldon
> at 334-844-1352 or `books@auburn.edu`.

## What is All Access?

All Access is Auburn’s program of delivering course materials to you digitally.
Sometimes this will be a textbook, sometimes an access code. Your instructor has
coordinated with the Bookstore to deliver this content for the course and help
make sure you have what you need. All Access makes sure you are ready the first
day of class, and the material is so much cheaper with this delivery that it’s
the best way we can help you succeed in your courses at Auburn financially and
academically.

## What content am I getting?

For this course, you're getting access for the semester to Vocareum Cloud Labs
as required for this course.

## How do I find it?

Codes for Vocareum access will be emailed from `noreply@auburn.edu`. You’ll also
receive an email with redemption instructions.

## What does it cost?

For the first two weeks of class, everyone gets this content for free.  All
students in this course start as opted in to pay for the content for the course.
The discounted price you’ll be billed is $21.95 for the Vocareum CloudLab
access.

If you want to opt out and not be charged, all you have to do is follow the
instructions (see
[https://www.aubookstore.com/t-txt_allaccessoptout1.aspx](https://www.aubookstore.com/t-txt_allaccessoptout1.aspx)).
You’ll lose access at the end of the second week, unless you've purchased it on
your own.

## How do I pay?

If you’re still opted in on **September 6**, then we’ll send the charge to your
next ebill.  This will be labeled as the course on your ebill so you’ll know.
You’ll get a reminder on **September 2** to remind you about the deadline.

## What if I'm on scholarship?

We can charge All Access content to any scholarship that we charge at the
Bookstore.  Those will be done automatically when we bill.

## What is the refund policy?

After the opt out deadline, we can only offer refunds to students who have
dropped the course or withdrawn from the university. That’s why the opt out
deadline will be crucial for you to decide if you want to be charged or not.

## What if I need help?

- For most digital content in All Access, Google Chrome works best as a browser
  and you’ll want to make sure it’s up to date.  

- I’m always happy to help as well, especially if you have a question about All
  Access or something doesn't look right.  Russell Weldon `books@auburn.edu` or
  844-1352

- Also, [http://aub.ie/allaccess](http://aub.ie/allaccess) has more info as
  well.

