# Lab Test Protocol

Here is the protocol you must follow during the lab test. **Violation of any
requirement specified in this protocol can be considered Academic Dishonesty.**

- You must be physically present in your assigned lab room during your assigned
lab time to take the test, and all work on the test must be done from within
the lab during your scheduled lab time. You cannot take the test in whole or
part outside of your assigned lab time and lab room.

- You must check in with your TA upon arrival.

- Backpacks must be put at the front of the room during the test. You can’t
keep your backpack at your seat during the test.

- Phones, tablets, smart watches, and other similar devices must be put away
during the test. You can’t have these devices out during the test.

- You are allowed to take a few sheets of the provided scratch paper. You will
have to turn in the scratch paper before you leave the test.

- You are allowed to take the test using either a lab computer or your own laptop. 

- If you use a lab computer, be sure to log in immediately once you've taken
your seat. Note that if this is the first time you've logged into a lab
machine, start-up time will be substantial. Extra time on the test will not be
awarded for this situation.

- You are allowed to complete the programming tasks using either the built-in
editor in Vocareum, or using the IDE of your choice on your own laptop. If you
use an IDE on your own laptop, note that extra time on the test will not be
given to account for configuration problems or similar issues related to your
own IDE.

- Just as with assignments, you are allowed unlimited submissions to Vocareum
and your score will be based strictly on the percentage of test cases passed.

- The test is closed-book, closed-notes, closed-Google, etc. In general, no
resources may be consulted or used during the test except for the Java API at
the following link: [Java
API](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/16/docs/api/index.html) If other
resources are allowed, they will be announced by the TA and instructions on how
to access them will be given.

- If you need to use the restroom during the test, just let your TA know where
you’re going. Do not close your browser, do not exit the test, do not take your
phone, laptop, or any other electronic device.

- When you have submitted the test, you must sign out with the TA before you
can leave the lab.


