
# Hands-On: Total Order


## Total Order

If a *total order* exists on a collection of values, it means that these
values can be arranged in ascending (or descending) order. That is, any value
in the collection can be compared to any other value in the collection on the
basis of "less than or equal to". Here are two links that provide more formal
definitions of a total order

- [`http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Total_order`](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Total_order)
- [`http://mathworld.wolfram.com/TotallyOrderedSet.html`](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/TotallyOrderedSet.html)

If we want to perform operations such as sorting, finding the minimum or
maximum, etc. on a collection of values, the values in that collection must
have a total order defined on them or otherwise these operations don't even
make sense. Java provides two standard ways of defining a total order on a
data class: the `Comparable` interface or the `Comparator` interface.

While `Comparable` and `Comparator` serve the same purpose (defining a total
order on a data class), the context of their use is very different. The
`Comparable` interface is implemented by a data class, and thus is used in the
context of one instance of that data class comparing *itself* to another
instance of that data class. For example, in the notes, class `Book`
implemented the `Comparable` interface. So, if `b1` and `b2` are instances of
`Book`, then we could ask `b1` to compare itself to `b2` based on the natural
order of `Book` like so: `b1.compareTo(b2)`.

In contrast, the `Comparator` interface is **not** implemented by the data
class. Instead, a "third party" class is used to implement `Comparator` for a
given data class. Again referring to the `Book` example from the notes, we had
a class defined like so: `public class CompareBooksByTitle implements
Comparator<Book>`. An instance of this class, say `bcomp`, can compare two
`Book` objects on the basis of the particular total order defined by this
class like so: `bcomp.compare(b1, b1)`. Note that the data class (`Book`) is
completely "unaware" of this other total order that `CompareBooksByTitle`
defines. Also note that it is the ability to define multiple "third party"
total orders that allowed us to write a single search method that can compare
items according to totally different criteria from one call to the next.

The following sections will give you practice in implementing and using both
the `Comparable` and `Comparator` interfaces.


### Comparable

The standard way to require that objects of a given class can be ordered is to
have that class implement the `Comparable` interface. The implementation of
`Comparable` defines the **natural ordering** of a class, since it is the
class itself that decides what the order is. Read about the `Comparable`
interface here:

- [`https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/14/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Comparable.html`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/14/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Comparable.html)


1. Open [`Student.java`](src/Student.java) in jGRASP and compile it.

1. Implement the `compareTo` method according to the commented description in the source code. The current (stub) version of `compareTo` is shown below.

   ```java
       @Override
       public int compareTo(Student s) {
          return -99;
       }
   ```

1. Open [`ClassRoll.java`](src/ClassRoll.java) in jGRASP and compile it.

1. Use `ClassRoll.java` to informally test your implementation of the natural order of the `Student` class. Note that you do not have to address the shuffling or `Comparator` aspect of the `ClassRoll` class yet. Just run the file as-is.

1. Use the provided jGRASP Canvas file ([`ClassRoll.jgrasp_canvas.xml`](src/ClassRoll.jgrasp_canvas.xml)) to watch the sort by natural order happen as you single-step in debug mode. Once you save the jGRASP Canvas XML file to the same directory as the source code, you can use the jGRASP Canvas like so:
   - Click on the Canvas file in the jGRASP Browse tab or click on the *Run in Canvas* button ![](img/run_canvas.png) in the jGRASP tool bar.
   - Once the Canvas window opens, resize it so that it best fits your display.
   - You can use any of the following controls to watch the program execute.
      - *Play* ![](img/play.png) - Starts the program running in auto-step mode.
      - *Step Over* ![](img/step_over.png) - Manually steps over each statement.
      - *Step In* ![](img/step_in.png) - Manually steps into each statement (method call).



### Comparator

Java provides the `Comparator` interface as the standard way of defining a
total order on a class that is different from its natural order. Read about
the `Comparator` interface here:

- [`https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/14/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Comparator.html`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/14/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Comparator.html)


1. Open [`ClassRoll.java`](src/ClassRoll.java) in jGRASP and compile it.

1. Implement the `CompareStudentsBySection` comparator according to the commented description in the source code. The current (stub) version is shown below.

   ```java
        private static class CompareStudentsBySection implements Comparator<Student> {
            /** Compares s1 to s2 in with respect to the defined total order. */
            public int compare(Student s1, Student s2) {
                return -99;
            }
        }
   ```

1. Compile and run `ClassRoll.java` to informally test your solution.

1. Use the provided jGRASP Canvas file ([`ClassRoll.jgrasp_canvas.xml`](src/ClassRoll.jgrasp_canvas.xml)) to watch the sort by comparator happen as you single-step in debug mode.

1. Respond to the prompts at the points specified in the source code comments to shuffle the roll and sort it in descending order of section. Try out your solutions by running the `ClassRoll` program. You may want to read the API for `Collections`:

    - [`https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/14/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Collections.html`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/14/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Collections.html)

1. Use the provided jGRASP Canvas file ([`ClassRoll.jgrasp_canvas.xml`](src/ClassRoll.jgrasp_canvas.xml)) to watch the shuffling and reverse order sort happen as you single-step in debug mode.


## Submission

The submission page for this activity asks you to submit both `Student.java`
and `ClassRoll.java` for a grade.
